[Music]
hi do chameleons
only change color for camouflage no
they can actually change colors to
reflect their mood
so males turn a bright color to show
their dominance
and they become darker when they get
aggressive chameleons
also change color to adapt to different
temperatures
a cold chameleon will turn dark to
absorb more heat
while a smoking hot chameleon will turn
itself pale to reflect the sun's rays
by the way do comedians change color for
camouflage
only if their jokes aren't getting any
laughs
okay i made that up now there's a myth
that if you drop a penny from a
skyscraper
it'll pretty much destroy whatever's
underneath but when put to the test
researchers found that it just isn't
true
on its way down a coin can't gather
enough velocity to cause permanent
damage to
anything mostly because of wind
resistance and the penny spinning around
and stuff anyway just hang on to your
change
now some people believe that toilet
flushes spin in the opposite direction
in the southern hemisphere some things
are affected by the earth's rotation
like the gulf stream or hurricanes but
toilet flushes are way too small
flushes can spin in either direction
whether they're in the northern or
southern hemispheres trust me i know the
biggest determinant of flush
direction is the design of the toilet
bowl and the water pressure
there's a popular saying that lightning
never strikes in the same place twice
lightning often strikes near the same
place a lot more than that
lightning generally chooses the tallest
pointiest spot as its target
researchers have found that the empire
state building gets struck by lightning
almost
100 times a year and quite a few people
have been zapped more than once
like a lot more so if you're tall and
pointy
be careful out there so there's a common
belief that
bats are blind but bats have better
vision than humans at night
although humans can see more clearly
during the day
maybe this myth came about because bats
rely a lot on their hearing to get about
or maybe it's because bats see the world
in black and white
now the goldfish really have short
memories
well most people put it at seven seconds
in reality
goldfish can remember things for as long
as seven months
without a good memory goldfish who live
in nature
would never find food did anyone ever
tell you that a mother bird will reject
its offspring
if they've been touched by a human that
would be nuts
because most birds don't have a
developed sense of smell
they'd never be able to identify the
scent of a person
the vulture is an exception to this rule
it has an
amazing nose but then who'd want to
touch a vulture anyway
ostriches bury their heads in the sand
when they're scared
except they don't this myth probably
came into being because an ostrich's
head
is disproportionately small in
comparison to its body
so from a distance it looks as if the
ostrich has its head stuffed in the sand
but if it really did that it would pass
out from not being able to breathe
another myth is that opossums hang on
branches with their tail
the opossum does use its tail to help it
climb trees
but its tail can't support its weight
even a hulked out
calisthenics master opossum could only
hang there for a few seconds max
legend has it that a penguin will fall
backward when looking up at an aircraft
cutest myth ever penguins can maintain
their
balance no matter what even while
looking up at the sky
but low-flying airplanes may cause
penguins to flee their nests in panic
do dogs really sweat by salivating no
they sweat through their foot pads but
salivating and panting
does help them regulate their body
temperature
cat owners may think that a cat only
purrs when it's happy
but cats also purr when they're hungry
distressed
or recovering from an injury researchers
think that purring may be a self-healing
trick
somehow it keeps their bones and muscles
working better
legend has it that if you run into a
skunk there's only one possible outcome
you're gonna stink for a while but
skunks prefer to flee from danger rather
than spraying their magic juice around
that smelly sprays their last line of
defense
before that they usually stomp their
feet and slap their tails to ward off
any danger
did you know there's an alpha wolf in
every pack
except again there isn't unlike captive
wolves
wild wolves don't share this kind of
social order
they live in family groups like humans
where the parents are the leaders
and the little ones gotta do as they're
told
there's a myth that owls can turn their
heads full circle
but that would cause them significant
damage but still they can turn their
heads
comfortably more than halfway around
because of their unique
neck bone structure if you've ever poked
a turtle shell
thinking it won't hurt the guy inside
you'd be wrong
a turtle shell is a living and feeling
part of its body
with a complete nerve ending supply if
the shell gets damaged
it can even endanger the turtle's life
there was a time when people thought
that unwashed hair
was the ideal habitat for headlights but
head lice don't discriminate no they can
make themselves a home
in all hair types all they really want
is a warm scalp
most people are familiar with the phrase
an apple a day keeps the doctor away
apples are good for you sure they're
packed with nutrients like fiber and
vitamin c
but does anyone really think that's
enough
when it comes to food hygiene the five
second rule just
doesn't make sense there should be a
where you drop it rule to replace the
five second one
generally if you drop food on your
kitchen floor it's gonna pick up fewer
bacteria than if you drop it at the
checkout counter of a busy supermarket
of course that's assuming your kitchen's
clean
uh-oh ever wondered whether the story
about
chewing gum taking seven years to digest
is true
nah it isn't chewing gum isn't too
different from any other food
it takes around the same time to digest
but
it's not exactly nutrient heavy legend
has it that catching a cold is likelier
to happen in cold weather
but studies have shown that weather
doesn't really play a part in getting a
cold
a virus does people may experience more
cold like symptoms when the weather is
icy cold
but temperature has nothing to do with
recovery time or anything like that
do people only use 10 percent of their
brains
well i have some friends who seem to
never mind
no the answer is no scientists who've
studied brain scans
say they don't show any large dormant
areas of the brain
but if the myth is just about humans
having a long way to go to reach their
full potential
yeah that sounds about right one of
life's no-nos is to jump into the pool
right after eating
but hitting the gym after a big meal can
leave you feeling just as uncomfortable
as doing a few laps
also if you're worried about getting a
cramp in the pool
those can happen anytime not just after
a meal
does shaved hair grow back darker and
thicker
researchers say it doesn't but shaving
does give your hair
a blunt tip which can make it feel
thicker
when it comes to color that new darker
stubble is
just an illusion some people are
convinced that eating turkey leaves them
feeling drowsy
it's true that turkey has a chemical
that can cause drowsiness
but so does chicken or beef turkey is a
favorite for those
massive family celebrations so that
drowsiness
it's probably due to the huge amount you
ate
the myth that people lose most of their
body heat through their heads
was probably first invented by a hat
salesman
not surprising scientists say that
people lose only about
10 percent of their body heat through
their heads you lose heat through your
skin
no matter where that skin is have you
heard the saying
that a full moon can affect your mind
somehow
and no but researchers believe that
light from a full moon
can affect your sleep which can affect
your mood
did ancient vikings really wear those
awesome horned helmets
there's no real evidence to back up this
claim
this myth probably came from books and
music looking to spice up their heroes a
bit
if you want to see a viking with a
helmet go to a minnesota vikings game
that's about as close as you're gonna
get
some people believe einstein flunked
math in school
einstein himself debunked this theory by
saying he mastered calculus at age 15
but einstein did fail to enter the
school of his choice
because he flunked languages on his
first try
but math he passed with flying colors